good afternoon everyone thanks for
joining I am pilman BP of sales at clavo
which is a DC marketing platform that
enables smarter digital relationships so
very apropo to the topic
today we're here to discuss a topic
that's not only near and dear to my
heart but also critical at this stage of
SAS for driving growth and revenue
retention in what is an increasingly
competitive market
mastering the art of customer focused
sales now before we get stuck into the
Tactical bits I wanted to do a bit of
context setting first and foremost
having studied the history of Art in uni
I know more than anybody that art is
subjective so there may be things that
you love about this there may be things
that rub you the wrong way but
regardless I hope it evokes some kind of
emotion
and critical thought secondly why listen
to me uh what I'm going to share today
is by no means revolutionary in fact
many of you may employ some of these
strategies already but like many of the
revenue leaders that I've met I never
wanted to pursue a career in sales in
fact I wanted to be a marketer
dinnertime chats as I grew up centered
around Brands marketing advertising with
my father who was at the time a VP of
marketing and sales was not a a
particularly interesting profession but
when I graduated the market was pretty
saturated and the only job I could land
was in sales selling into marketers
which I thought was a great foray to
better understand the world in which I
wanted to
pursue both as a profession and this
mentality of better understanding the
other side became core to my Approach
relatively early on the bulk of my
career now has been uh spent at early
stage startups despite the fact that I
am now at clavo but that afforded me a
very unique opportunity in a sales role
where my focus was not solely Revenue
related there's so many facets of the
business that you're exposed to if
you're a part of a
startup that you don't get to see in
large organizations because as you scale
those roles become more and more
specialized I remember the days of my
myself on mute during a demo to scream
over to product and Engineering walking
over to customer success when something
I sold wasn't working and that unique
opportunity allowed me to see the other
side it wasn't again solely about
hitting Revenue
targets but that experience I gained in
my first few roles made me obsessed with
understanding my customer and the Art of
the sale rather than the sale
itself today I'm excited to talk about
how to put that customer relationship at
the Forefront of your sales
strategy the most crucial lesson I've
learned over the years is the importance
of understanding and empathizing with
your
customers and that applies at all stages
of the customer Journey now to do that
you must align internally first and
foremost understand your customer
through data
both anecdotal and Quant and maintain
agility and
adaptability
now the world has evolved and so have
customer expectations again nothing new
we as consumers expect a different
experience whether that's a physical
product that you've ordered from Amazon
overnight or software the expectation is
that not only is the product different
and the price
different but also your experience with
that company and that's where you can
really differentiate
yourself we're all
consumers again whether it's a physical
good or
software how do we deliver that
differentiated
experience by leveraging the data
available to you to speak to your
customers in in the language that they
want to be spoken to at the time that
they want to be spoken to addressing the
challenges that are relevant to them and
in a way that they'd prefer to consume
the solution that you're offering to
them and I don't mean from a product
standpoint how they engage with you in
your team from their first interaction
maybe Finding Your solution on a reviews
site or Googling you to how they're
Interac with you as a customer of yours
as you negotiate renewal or additional
product now more than ever every single
interaction matters again not rocket
science but over the last decade sales
has changed massively couple that with
growing consumer expectations and you
can't solely think about a single
Channel or a single state holder or even
a couple of channels and a couple
stakeholders you have to count for every
customer interaction that starts at the
top of the funnel even pre funnel and
follows throughout their entire customer
life cycle with you and Beyond even
turned customers are valuable sources of
data for
you you have to think about how they're
consuming their interactions with you
what they see what what the value
statement is is it consistent throughout
the life
cycle if you didn't win the
sale why
not how can you go back and ultimately
win the sale if you did why did they
buy why do they continue to stay a
customer of their of yours how is their
customer success and support experience
and what will engage them enough to
renew this may seem obvious but it's not
so as I mentioned at the beginning there
really three key points that drive how
to activate customer focus
sales the first and arguably most
important is aligning
internally and this starts at the top in
fact in some organizations I've been a
part of we refer to this as corporate
jail it's where your sea Suite is locked
in a room for a couple of
days and they have to agre on what the
value is to the customer actually pre
that before that they have to agree to
who the customer is and I think in some
organizations you would be shocked to
find that who your VP or chief product
officer believes that you should be
selling to is different from your Chief
Revenue officer or your Chief marketing
officer so first and foremost is making
sure that you're all selling to the
right
person then it's understanding value
alignment to that
ICP making sure that it's applicable and
consistent across the entire executive
team only once you have that alignment
at the top can you then Cascade the
communication downwards and that's
before it's even left the walls of your
organization but that alignment needs to
be absolutely
tight the ideal State then is that
regardless of who engages with your
company at which stage of the funnel in
any role there's a consistent value
prop that appeals to the
buyer it should feel
consistent but differentiated across the
entire
organization so they'll come to you and
you'll have a consistent value prop and
it will differentiate you from the
competition with regards to how they've
engaged with
you every customer interaction is also
an opportunity to set yourself apart
from the competition you'd be amazed by
the creativity that's coming out of bdr
teams right now Tik Tok videos that
appeal to Innovative companies can't say
that I'm a Tik Tok user but certainly
appreciate the creativity that comes
behind Outreach that's entirely social
based renting things that are outside of
the home Billboards to catch attention
it's really amazing but think about how
you're differentiating from the
competition who may just be sending
emails at
scale insert cringe slide here get ready
to screenshot as you think about this
alignment and how to differentiate
yourself and even how to hone in on an
ICP I would ask yourself these questions
how are you listening to feedback from
the various touch points are you
spending time with the front line to
understand how customers are responding
to the message is it
resonating then Workshop that from the
top of the funnel to the bottom and if
you're familiar with the bow tie even
beyond what topics are most engaging to
get people through the door and what
topics are most engaging to keep and
retain customers as they continue to get
greater value out of your product what
are the hot spots on your
site what search words are
popular what events are people attending
communities are they a part of what
content are they
consuming what feedback can you gather
from your partners partners are massive
in this case because they have access to
the market in a way that you cannot as a
direct
seller if you've not mapped the customer
journey I encourage you to spend some
time doing that and then validating it
with your sales team with your marketers
and anybody from a customer standpoint
who lives that every single
day and then how do you think about
making sure that your sales team is
equipped to navigate the customer
Journey
themselves are they product experts do
they have certifications that are
required of them are there okrs aligned
with the
product and then the question everyone
always has how do you do this at scale
it's easy when you're reaching out to
five or 10 people people to personalize
a message how do you make sure that you
can do that and still ensure that each
customer feels as though they're
experiencing a differentiated
experience that each of their
competitors isn't also
receiving so how do you do that the
answer through
data for those salespeople in the room
this is the importance of keeping your
CRM hygiene good
one of the most valuable tools that you
have is one
centralized and consumable viewpoint on
your
customer if all data resides in one
place you and the analysts can make
smarter decisions and engage with people
at the right time based on the behaviors
that you can recognize through Trends
and
Analysis Tac is huge here but that's not
where it ends so what I would recommend
doing is leaning on technology to assist
you but don't live and die solely by the
tech that's available to
you demographic Insight behavioral
Insight Market insights are
amazing but I'd also recommend just
interviewing your
customers supplementing this with
anecdotal
data the rich data enables us to
leverage the information that we have to
make smarter decisions around which
organizations to Target
when how to strengthen our value
prop and align it to a hard metric
Revenue to the organizations that we
work with weaving that data together
from disparate sources allows you to
tell a story about the customer where
you can continue to position your Tech
more
effectively which brings us to the next
Point maintaining
agility and the ability to
adapt so go-to Market strategy again not
revolutionary is not a set it and forget
it thing it's a dynamic framework it
requires that you revisit what you
initially believed continue to
test
hypotheses and prove or disprove them
you may need to adjust it based on what
you're hearing from the market what
you're seeing in the data conversion rat
shifting
overnight identify the areas of
opportunity and the challenges and and
work with your team to understand them
greater that is where the anecdotal
feedback comes into
play put in place mechanisms to listen
and gather feedback from the deals you
won but also those you lost sometimes
more valuable are those closed lost
conversations than the closed one Clos
one validates something you already knew
closed loss allows you to identify
things maybe you
didn't within the sales organization at
clavo we have a weekly closed meeting
it changes from week to week sometimes
it's one sometimes it's lost sometimes
it's focused on large deals sometimes
it's focused on
volume but that meeting includes our CMO
our CFO our VP of product Le
legal Finance broad
audience but we
review thematic takeaways that allow us
to take action where needed whether
internal or
external often those meetings sit
exclusively within a sales organization
and it's great but sales people love
listening to themselves
speak so adding in
additional
functions gives an empathy and
understanding outside of the walls of
the revenue organization and often
drives
change at the stage we're at with clo we
also have an incredibly diverse customer
base I imagine the same is true some of
you whether you're pre-product Market
fit trying to figure that out or at
scale but what each of those customers
needs and how they consume the product
is different which requires us to not
only attract those audiences differently
going to different conferences different
partners reaching out differently with
different
messaging but it also requires
us to segment our go-to Market
strategy and at clayo we're very
intentional about pairing our go-to
Market
strategy with remarkable people who can
carry out plans where drives
impact we leverage something like this
again probably not unfamiliar to many of
you but a sales skills and competency
Matrix and within each of the segments
that we sell into there are different
expectations of the members of the team
so for example for entrepreneur and SMB
those smaller organizations that we're
selling into we look to evaluate how the
product may enable the
sale so that the evaluation and buying
journey is frictionless and salespeople
can be hugely efficient with their time
time while still providing value to the
customer on the flip side as we move up
Market to the mid-market and Enterprise
again expectation is
different so the skill set must be
different how do you best build and
respond to an RFP how do you
multi-thread internally with the
appropriate
stakeholders how do you navigate the
complexities of security and
compliance last but not least thinking
about how you're aligning your internal
resource so CMO to CMO connects CTO to
CTO connects so they can discuss
challenges and goals that in and of
itself is delivering a differentiated
experience because you're offering
strategy in a way that maybe your peers
aren't able to do particularly not at
scale last but not least the sale
extends beyond the sale
the art of customer focused sales does
not just stop at leveraging data from
customers to be more successful sales
people it's also incumbent upon us to
ensure we deliver incredible customer
experience what does that mean within
our walls it means establishing things
like a customer Advisory
Board having a voice of the customer
survey so that we can continue to gather
information from our existing customers
around what's working and what's
not qbrs with the customers themselves
as a feedback loop that are then shared
with the sales organization so that
sales can continue to become smarter at
where the customers are getting value
out of the product that we're
providing we share an upgrade number
across sales and customer success as
well so we've created a team who sells
into our existing customer base working
closely alongside C who's responsible
for strategy and identifying additional
value ad within the product but that
shared goal allows us to work together
so that our customers are getting
greater value out of the product
constantly this focus on our customer
and the value that they derive has
allowed us to grow and innovate and
stretch beyond what is our traditional
ICP it's allowed us to experiment and
understand other areas where we deliver
value that maybe within our customer
Journey that we' mapped or our corporate
jail we hadn't
identified and that then goes right back
to adaptability how can we use that as a
continued feedback loop and either
establish a new segment or a new
vertical that we can
pursue so if nothing else I hope that
you take away from
this internal alignment is required
across all functions to enable a
customer focused
sale there's Rich data available to you
assuming you keep your CRM updated and
all of your Integrations are
working which enable you to create a
narrative that resonates with your
buyer agility and adaptability are key
identifying key areas where you
can invest more or shift the
investment will enable you to continue
to solidify your go-to Market strategy
and grow
quickly building out the Frameworks and
skill set within your organization
hiring the right Talent against those
skill sets and
Frameworks we'll make sure that you're
holding your sales team accountable to
the expectation of delivering a
differentiated experience based on the
segment that you're selling
into and last but not least
personalizing your Outreach and the
interactions based on the data that
you've gathered
mirroring your prospects so that you're
finding them when they want to be found
with the right messaging and
communicating in a way that's relevant
to them whether that's email WhatsApp
over LinkedIn in person will enable you
to put the customer at the Forefront of
your sale